Hey
there well then work but Nina Pretty be here for a quick mid-week
pod cast the news of the Paris and Beirut bombings has been on all of
our minds and throughout the coverage one word seems to keep popping
up by ash. This is the name not ISIS or Eisel or
Islamic state by DI S. but you may have heard. French President Francois Hollande used
to describe the quote jihadist army who committed the Paris
attack short of saying you don't need yet these big will die to do
Cuba and for the last year. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry has also used
the word. I
asked one thing is certain dosh will continue to spread until or
unless it is
stopped the term is slowly being adopted by international leaders.
France has actually been a leader on this outside of the Middle East.
This is a book on she writes about Islam and politics and I actually wrote an article for The
Boston Globe about the term Di ASH a year ago around the time that Kerry adopted
the term.
France has been calling the terrorist that has since last year since then Australia
as well has taken up the term as has
Turkey but more important to me than any of those states is the fact that the people on the
ground who face a daily brunt of brutality from these terrorists they call them
that activists on the ground in Syria have been referring to the group that many
of us know as ISIS as this term since twenty thirteen and we're going to get more about
that in the pod cast but now it seems that Western
leaders are starting more and more to use the term but the media. It's been all over the place
in describing what it means and how to pronounce it for that matter
Arabic translator Alice Guthrie got frustrated with what she's been seeing in the British
press there was this one particular phrase that was going around at the time.
I'm
about being a
nylon that according to how it was conjugated meant different things well you know.
We know is language that nouns don't get conjugate its budget comes again
to oust really an interesting article dissecting the term for the online website free
word and I called her up to talk about it and before we even got into discussing what the term
actually means it was a simple clarification of
what pronunciation.
First how do you pronounce it correctly.
So it's a dash. It's hard to say because it has the letter I and the letter
eyeing which we often write in English using an apostrophe. So when you see those words
have an apostrophe in the middle of them on the start of them. That's usually a transliteration of Ein.
Which is also the like if you're saying Arab in Arabic.
It's a add a B.. Yeah if that's answered that's in the middle size that has a
dash you know I like the way. Well thank you and what exactly if you could
just tell me does dash exactly
mean it is actually just the acronym of the Islamic
State in Iraq in Syria in Arabic those words that phrase in Arabic.
So that in our break is a dollar and Islam in a film and I will
show which if you take that as an acronym the Comes dosh.
So actually that's what's strange about it is actually just the Arabic equivalent of
saying I said. So I fill
ins and so it's just basically the same as saying ISIS or
I
still or I asked what about this particular acronym. Why
does Dyess rice or ISIS or I asked dislike this acronym
so very
much that a couple of reasons. First of all you have to understand acronyms and
not usually used in Arabic. So you know we're very used to using acronyms in all
sorts of ways across and life and culture but that really doesn't happen in Iraq a
phone linguistic.
So it's like very strange to have a word that's
been created a new odd sounding word that's been created so that's that's one
reason
is that seen as a bad thing having an acronym in kind
of taking away
power any acronym that was ever created for anything it would necessarily be a bad thing
but because it's a made up word and you can hear that it's a made up word.
It sounds like a challenge to ISIS's legitimacy as an organization.
You know it's kind of like you've got a nonsensical made up name for something that implies that it's
a nonsensical made up organization
or you know phenomena and it's really a dismissal of their aspirations to
define Islamic practice and to be seen as a
state but that's not just because it's an acronym acronym is like one prong of why it's
like that the
other reason the word has such significance is it's like slightly a
play on words that sounds quite a lot like that US which is only one letter different with
us rather than show the
end and that means something that's crushing underfoot or trampling
So it's kind of painfully close to being a description in that way that incidentally is one of
the things that's caused so much confusion in the media.
Alice actually interview the Syrian activist who coined the
term.
He is an activist originally from rocka which was the first stronghold of ISIS in
Syria the first city that they occupied and made their headquarters
from so obviously I think what's really important in the hall dash narrative as
in the words you know when we're talking about the
word is remember that the activists in Syria with the first and main victims. I mean the
people of Syria right.
But they were the people who were trying to fire dash from the beginning and still
are and so they came up with this term because they really wanted
a way to get around referring to them as a state because they don't see them this
day an Islamic. I don't see them as Islamic
and they really fail and I agree that it's very important that the victims choose the name not
the
criminal credit also told Alice that another reason why the name works is that
it evokes a dark period in history
something about the actual
well. That has kind of connotations from
the Dark Ages it sounds like the words from a generally the age of ignorance
the prism of
timed it really sounds like some kind of monstrous creature. So
bursting back out from the depths of time which is in many
ways how they see the issue of no wrongdoing band
of monsters coming from a different time and place it's hard to believe that
people
could really think that that's a rational or useful way to act right when we see what they're doing
so that's very much the statement that the Syrian activists are making by using this word.
What about the word evokes that the sound the structure the what about
that particular word evokes this time period this these monsters this kind
of going back into a dark
period is just really the sound of it that's what I'm told that has those kind of flowing
and attentions from the sound and formation of the word.
Khalid final as your head. How do you sort of disseminate this word when they came up with the term.
How did he disseminate the word and what does he think about the West and the way readers have taken many
different forms of calling it isis.
Yeah I asked him that question.
He said that you know they were absolutely plays that it was going in currency.
The only thing that I think has been difficult for them and complex for them was when Bashar al
Assad himself took the term on as an activist working diligently against
that Syrian dictator they were kind of shocked that
they would be even in that kind of level of communication with him I think that Yasin
you know him taking on
that I think it's probably a bit mixed for them saying is nobody. Acknowledging that
this word comes from them and I feel a bit sad you know if felt like part of the
pattern really of the Syrian activists in the Syrian resistance not being acknowledged and not
being celebrated on a global
stage with that in mind as well it's not surprising that we don't know
that the word came from them I was really amazed to find quite across the
board in the British press the broad sheet
press some kind of weird source some
misinformed source had been taken on by all of them. The explanation of what dash meant
was with gobbled it made no sense
linguistically meaning what it what was garbled there was some understanding of it
being an acronym but there was this one particular phrase that was going
around at the time
about being a narrow
one that according to how it was conjugated meant different things well you know
we know is language that nouns don't get conjugating verbs conjugated So it
was strange and sad to me that this had been recycled regarded it so many
times with nobody picking up on
that case and different outlets would add their own little flourish. So much is it
especially offensive in Lebanon. I mean the chance especially like someone's daydream.
You know but this could be presented in really quite serious articles and I suspected
that this would not go on if it was a country that was perceived as closer to home and obviously
this kind
of dichotomy between van and us is
something that's been examined a lot this week you know on social media in the wake of
the Paris atrocities. But the rush of silence about the bombings in Beirut that happened
at the same time. And so you know I think there's a lot of discomfort
around the age old separation of a distant other
and supposed. Which can sound like kind of very dry theory but I think
it's things like the use of this word an interpretation of this word actually
meant clay just how much that. I'm going
on you wrote in your article said that satire is a crucial weapon in the fight
against this group and they wrote that in the satirical Arab media there have been several
dim unitive of the word that I saw gone viral and I was curious about what diminutive
Have you seen that have gone viral in in the Arab
world Arabic very similarly to how Spanish
does uses diminutives one of the many ways it uses the images is a kind
of patronize and belittle my margin from a
diminutive So dash. Become a
douche which would be like a little dash that is kind of used
when referring to somebody who's you know. A little
bit of a
supporter maybe from afar. And somehow giving them a kind
of babyish version of the word is you know just even
more dismissive of any kind of claimed.
Well nourished power or potency or anything
really there are other examples of. Yes because
Arabic is.
As a language is wonderfully structured almost source of algebra.
Language where are the vast majority of Arabic words a made from three consonants
that we call the
root you can sort of pulse on a bit like like different
for nations to always have the same kind of meaning.
So what I mean by that is for
example our last three letters and
now with the filer to do or
make but you could then insight into that a certain
pattern which would make the
subject before and so if you
insert and a half a mile.
Would be to the do or the subject the person who does the. Or you could do
that same operation to any three week letters means that once
you've got this crazy.
Dash is made up well you can do other things because everybody knows the patterns of
how you make it into the one that tramples the one that's being trampled or
the plural trampoline or whatever it might
be once dash has become this
one this funny near ledges and everyone finds so funny on the one side
or so offensive on the other side you can do other things with it as I
was saying Dadu sht the little dash a but also you making
plurals acid it making singulars acid and them all this is done the less respectful.
It seems the more this is done the father you're getting from the
name that is chosen by the organization which has
the diary formal pompous sounding old classical Arabic and which
crucially is a find them as a state which they are not and as Islamic Is there
not to further deepen guy with these creative meanderings of this funny
silly
word the father by guessing from the proper
name by abstracting it and turning it into a word. And then playing around with
outward it has taken all the power out of this this phrase
essentially
words were more powerful right like at the end that I we are already talking about
naming Yes the satire is really important. Maybe more as
a sanity strategy than an actual act of resistance I mean
the satire is all very well but we are dealing
with something so huge and so serious here that we need more than
Saturday to stand up
to
Arabic translator Alice Catherine about your article and they were conned article in the notes for this
podcast at P.R.I. dot org flash language. And that's all for the
quick slap dash edition of the world in words my thoughts are with the folks in
Paris and Beirut. You can find us on Twitter at Lingle
Pod I'm at POR is easy that P.R. Zene you think
AI as always thank you for
listening
to
sound work sound works from P.R.I..